- [Instructor] The Quarkus framework
is a powerful set of open source tools sponsored
by Red Hat that fills the needs
of most Java developers operating in the cloud,
in containers or on big iron systems.
As a framework, I haven't been this excited
since the early days of Spring.
So let's talk a little bit about what Quarkus is itself.
First and foremost, it's a full stack Java framework.
You can build web applications,
web services, standalone components all written
in Java with Quarkus.
Anything you can do with Java,
you can obviously do with Quarkus
but the extensions and configurations
that we will discuss is where the power really comes in.
The full stack framework concepts
includes many of these extension points.
Quarkus is Kubernetes native.
It was designed from the ground up
to operate in a containerized world
and we will talk about this.
One of the areas I see a huge benefit from Quarkus
over other Java frameworks is size.
The most popular Java framework,
for instance, can be significantly bigger
from a RAM utilization perspective,
which is why this is very important
when dealing with Kubernetes.
Smaller is better, especially if you're managing the system
underneath the Kubernetes nodes.
Quarkus is also designed to be fully cloud native.
Many of its size, efficiencies and extensions
have the ability to run in many operational formats,
including serverless, containerized,
or VM operations.
It also supports full externalized configuration,
making it fit into the 12 factor application scope as well.
Quarkus itself is also designed to be natively compiled
with the GraalVM.
Some frameworks are not yet ready for this exciting change
but Quarkus is, and we see massive improvements
on execution performance using the GraalVM with Quarkus.
And if you're interested in that,
I have a course on GraalVM itself,
specifically looking at various frameworks,
like Quarkus and Spring.
Now, Red Hat discusses several key features of Quarkus
and being designed for developers
is one of the first ones that they mention.
Quarkus is designed to be easy to use.
Now, this isn't just words.
In my opinion, I think once you start writing
your first application,
you will see that Quarkus is indeed cleaner
and easier to pick up than many other frameworks.
Part of what makes this a great choice
for developers is the massive amount
of choice you are given.
Some frameworks really push their opinions
onto the developer and while oftentimes it works fine,
it doesn't really focus on the developers
who use the framework
from their needs perspective.
Instead, telling them what they should need.
A cool tool that I have used
when building web-based applications
for several years now is live coding.
Quarkus gives you live coding out of the box.
The configuration model for Quarkus
is unified and it's very powerful
with its own set of defaults
that help you as a developer move fast
and focus on what you need to focus on,
which quite frankly isn't the framework itself.
And finally, from a developer perspective,
it's how easy and clean it is to build a native image
from standard code.
Quarkus was designed to be container first.
Now, this philosophy is evident
in all aspects of the framework itself.
The entire framework was built around this mantra.
Lower memory usage is one of the biggest benefits.
We are seeing reduced memory footprints
of nearly 90% over some
of the traditional Java applications,
using the most popular frameworks today.
Part of being container-first development framework
is acknowledging the startup time and that it matters
and Quarkus has embraced that as well
by improving startup times
over traditional Java applications,
as well as those using again
the most common frameworks of today.
Now, one of the coolest aspects
for full stack developers today with Quarkus
is the way it handles imperative code and reactive code.
Quarkus combines reactive and imperative
into a single runtime,
as opposed to different runtimes
as you'll see with other frameworks
and different patterns outside the code themselves as well.
To accomplish this,
Quarkus uses the reactive engine
for both imperative and reactive styles.
This way, the develop using reactive
could to get their non-blocking core,
which is really what they need,
whereas the developer doing imperative,
they just keep doing what they're doing,
regardless of the fact
that the core is non-blocking,
they're still writing blocking applications based
on the standard RESTful endpoints, for instance.
Now, by combining both of these together,
this allows developers to use the same core
and write the code that makes sense
for their business needs and their use cases.